# Senior_Project_BCI
Our application is focused on using a EEG headset to control a computer's cursor and trigger mental shortcuts. The goal is to allow the user to interact with the computer solely using the headset. While this application can be used by anyone with a supported headset, it is aimed towards people with disabilities who have difficulty using regular computer equipment.

## Hardware
We are using the **OpenBCI Ganglion** board with 4 channels.

## Software
To interact with the board we are primarily using the Brainflow library. The library supports several popular EEG headsets, among which is the OpenBCI Ganglion board.
The library allows us to stream data from the board in realtime. It also has APIs for signal processing and ML models.

To assist with processing the data we are also using Numpy and Pandas

To control the device's cursor/keyboard we are using PyAutoGUI

To create our GUI we are using Python Tkinter

## User Requirements
- User shall be able to connect the headset to the software.
- User shall be able to maneuver over the GUI easily. 
- User shall be able to control the mouse cursor.
- User shall be able to save data.
- User shall be able to create shortcuts.
- User shall be able to train with BCI.

## System Requirements
- Software shall output live EEG data.
- Software shall be able to connect to the OpenBCI headset.
- Software shall mimic a mouse click by some metric.
- Software shall be able re-run saved data (shortcuts).

## Description of the GUI Interface
This screenshot depicts our current visual of what the user would see when the start the program. The user will be shown various options on the left side of the screen, starting with the first option to connect their headset. The option labeled “Cursor Control” will start the software to translate the brain waves generated by the users headset to allow the user to move the mouse cursor. The option “Save Data” will allow the user to save their data graphs through a “.txt” file. Further down we have the “Tutorial” option in which will allow the user to revisit the demo on how to meditate with cursor control as well as potentially provide them with short trails on movement. The final option to the left is the “Settings” option, this will provide basic settings the user can adjust to the software's default settings and options. Finally, we see the software will provide the live brainwave data to be depicted alongside these options. Also depicted are the shortcuts below for the user to access  at a quicker response time for simplicity. The buttons are also large for easy access to the options.

